I was convinced self-study was my superpower. I had always been solitary. While I was motivated, I didn't see a path forward. Homeschooled K-12, I learned C++, Calculus, Coding. I had always had the opportunity to go deep into what I loved. Study math? Just open a textbook and Khanacademy. Animation? a video tutorial. Code? ez-peasy. All I had to do was set a goal, and dedicate my soul to achieving it! Memorize the entire Qur'an? 600 pages of arabic text? I did it in 3 years, becoming a Hafiz. Study Arabic Language? Learnt to read that. Couple that with my father discouraging me to go to college, I became convinced that I was a lone wolf. I had my path envisioned in my mind, I would start a business, strike it rich.

But as I moved from learning to building mechatronic projects, like my optical encoder, my progress stalled. What worked with math equations did not work with systems. Systems require more than linear thinking, they require input, creativity, rigorous theory that is hard to self-learn. But I always blamed it on myself, when I was stuck; it was because was not productive enough, when I couldn't make progress, It was my fault. What I didn't realize was that I was missing the support structure, the team that would take me forward.
By the end of 2024, I was lost.
2025 rolled around, and I was another year deeper in the forest. I didn't know where I would go. Then, I don't remember really, but something triggered me, probably my mom or something or grandma, to look at engineering programs. (should i explain how i entered CC?) I entered college, and it was a revelation. I hadn't even realized what I was missing out. Not just the labs, equipment, and hardware, but the network, the professors, the peers! Of course, it wasn't easy adjusting to this environment. But I began to realize, the previous "me" who would get stuck on things, this was the environment I needed. I ferociously took every opportunity I could. Adjusting to the environment, I didn't just survive, I annihalated the curve. I progressively tackled heavier courseloads as the year progressed, eager to challenge myself to the next level. And I grew more and more involved. This was it. I would make it. I finally saw a path forward. I was not an "unproductive slob". oh no, no,no, getting those negative thoughts out, this took time. This took thought. This took real fighting. I siezed every opportuniyt, joining IEEE, VP of engineering club, blah blah blah.

However, there was friciton in adjusting to this environment, obviously. From being solitary so long, in a way I looked down on others, its hard to explain but like I kinda didn't trust them. In group project, I recall when I dismissed their input. The professor gave me a 0% grade on it. I was shocked, when I asked why, it was because in real projects, you need to prioritize the team's success over your ego.

Now, reflecting on 2025, I realize that even a lone wolf can learn to thrive in the pack. I retain my homeschool laser focus and determination, but now I have team skills that will take me to the stars and beyond.
