Please describe why you are interested in being an RPI-HVCC Semiconductor Scholar.

When I learned about the RPI-HVCC Semiconductor Scholars program, I knew it fit my trajectory: moving from breadboard prototypes to high-TRL mechatronic systems.

Homeschooled K-12, my route to engineering was hands-on. After a gap year building projects like an optical encoder and 4-axis CNC at my father's firm, I enrolled at HVCC in 2025. My transition to college was jarring, but I thrived in the structured ecosystem, earning a 4.0 Major GPA while carrying an accelerated course load. I also left my comfort zone becoming Vice President of HVCC's Engineering Club and leading a self-balancing robot build with the IEEE Club. HackRPI 2025 gave me experience collaborating in RPI labs within a 24-hour deadline.

I initially viewed semiconductors primarily through material science, but my perspective shifted as I learned how interdispciplinary modern fabs are and how much they depend on embedded control systems. Building a 3D-printed optical encoder(PCBs in KiCad, high-speed signal timing, LabVIEW visualization) taught me the fundamentals of sensing of data acquisition; while my self-balancing robot is teaching me feedback control. Modern fabs scale these fundamentals through automation, sensing and data acquisition, safety interlocks, and reliability.

This program offers the resources I need to leap into that workforce. Mentorship from RPI faculty and advising staff would help me refine a roadmap toward ECSE embedded work applied to fab equipment automation and motion control. I'm especially excited about the GlobalFoundries site visit and the six-week summer immersion at RPI led by Prof. Muhsin Celik, and I would use these experiences to target a project in...., building relationships with RPI faculty before I transfer. I will come to lab visits with prepared questions and use the program's industry engagement to build context and connections before transferring fall 2026.
